+++
title = "Maritza"
image = "keith-keith.jpg"
+++

Maritza Jaimes is a law clerk at Southam Law LLC. She is the daughter of Mexican immigrant parents and a first-generation college student who grew up in the southside neighborhoods of Chicago including Pilsen and Back of the Yards. From a very young age, Maritza was a translator and advocate for her own parents and family members. She quickly learned that the Latinx community has limited access to the legal community due to a lack of financial resources, language barriers, and the underrepresentation of Latinos. She became passionate about immigrants’ human rights and has focused her career on criminal justice and immigration work. Maritza earned Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice with a minor in Spanish Language and Literature, a Master of Arts in Criminal Justice and Criminology, and Juris Doctor from UIC John Marshall Law School. Prior to law school, Maritza worked several years at Juvenile Detention Center with young women awaiting sentencing. In law school, Maritza focused on criminal and immigration law, including translating immigration documents, drafting legal policy for the Illinois Department of Corrections, and worked at the International Human Rights Clinic at UIC John Marshall where she focused on asylum. Maritza joined the firm in March 2021 because her values of providing legal assistance to a diverse group of immigrants and marginalized communities directly aligned with the mission at Southam Law LLC. She is now in the process of becoming a licensed attorney in Illinois and hopes to soon join the legal field as an attorney to continue to serve as an advocate for immigrant rights. Maritza enjoys watching movies, traveling, and spending time with her family.
